---
icon: ethernet
layout:
  width: default
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: false
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: false
  metadata:
    visible: true
---

# 389, 636, 3268, 3269 - LDAP

LDAP (**Lightweight Directory Access Protocol**) is a protocol used to access and manage directory information. A directory is a hierarchical data store that contains information about network resources such as **users**, **groups**, **computers**, **printers**, and **other devices.**

LDAP is commonly used for providing a **central location** for **accessing** and **managing** _**directory services**_. Directory services are collections of information about the organisation, its users, and assets–like usernames and passwords. LDAP enables organisations to store, manage, and secure this information in a standardised way. Here are some common use cases:

**Authentication:** LDAP can be used for **central authentication**, allowing users to have single login credentials across multiple applications and systems. This is one of the most common use cases for LDAP.

**Authorisation:** LDAP can **manage permissions** and **access control** for network resources such as folders or files on a network share. However, this may require additional configuration or integration with protocols like Kerberos.

**Directory Services:** LDAP provides a way to **search**, **retrieve**, and **modify data** stored in a directory, making it helpful for managing large numbers of users and devices in a corporate network. `LDAP is based on the X.500 standard` for directory services.

**Synchronisation:** LDAP can be used to **keep data consistent** across multiple systems by **replicating changes** made in one directory to another.



